# Design Diary - Unity Blackjack - 2/13/2020

This assignment was to created a basic blackjack game in Unity. To be honest, when we first started getting into using Unity, I hated it. I also really disliked all of the tutorial games that we did along the way. I disliked Unity mainly because I felt like I was stupid as it wouldn't work on my machine, and I hated the game tutorials because I felt like I was learning nothing, I was just copying someone else's work, and I couldn't even get the programs that I copied to work. However, as was pointed out to me by my professor, these tutorials did have immense value to completing this project. The "2d card game" that I couldn't stand ended up showing my how to instantiate objects and place them neatly in the player spaces using the grid layout. The 2d rougelike game that I couldn't get to work properly taught me how to assign sprites to objects (I did end up using the set image instead of the sprite renderer though), and also taught me how the structure of a unity game looks. And the ball roller that made me learn that my computer couldn't attach scripts to objects and made me waste hours of my time, taught me not only how to set game objects active, but also to **PUSH MY CODE** to Github before I run a unity build in vlab. But most of all, I got practice. A lot of practice. And that is probably what I appreciate most.

On a different note, there were a lot of problems and setbacks that I had to overcome as I worked on this project. The biggest issue that I had to deal with was changing variables and calling methods in other scripts. In just about **every** Unity forum, they say "you need to grab the script component" from a gameobject and that you need to fetch the component in every script. This is so inconvient and it didn't make any sense to me so I spent a long time digging and found that somehow, people don't use `public static` even though it is **way** more conveniet than grabbing a script component in every script and allows you to call static methods and fields like class methods. This discovery really broke the project for me because I already felt like I knew exactly what to do and how to code everything.

All in all, I actually changed my mind on Unity and how I felt about all of the previous labs and projects, and I look forward to hopefully continuing with as many new and challenging projects as possible.